

 
Diskuterar Weird och Eerie som två sidor av Strange, det märkliga. 
I introduktionen säger han att de två sidorna av det märkliga överskuggats av Freuds uppsats Unheimlich, the
uncanny, eller Fishers omtolkning, unhomely. 

Unheimlich är viktig för analysen av senare science fiction-verk och skräck, likt Lovecraft. 

WEIRD:
"The weird is that which does not belong"
"[...] the weird is constituated by a presence, the presence of that which does not belong"


EERIE:
"The eerie [...] is constituated by a failure of absence, or by a failure of presence. The sesation of the
eerie occurs either when there is something present where there should be nothing, or there is nothing present
where there should be something."

"the failure of absence" - ett fågelskri, exempel på first mode of eerie

"the failure of presence" - känslan av eerie som infinner sig i ruiner eller övergivna byggnader och platser. 

Post-apokalyptisk sci-fi är vanligtvis fylld av eerie scener. 

Sida 76 Kap On Vanishing Land: M.R. James and Eno

The port and the burial ground offer two different versions of the eerie. The container port loom s over the
declining seaside town, the ports cranes towering above the Victorian resort like H.G. Wells' Martian Tripods.
Approached from the countryside, from Trimley marshes, the cranes preside over the rural scene like gleaming
cybernetic dinosaurs erupting out of a Constable landscape.

Sida 81 Kap On Vanishing Land: M.R. James and Eno

Eno recounts in those same sleevenotes that part of the inspiration for On Land lay in his ambition to produce
an "aural counterpart” to Fellinis Amarcord (1973). 
The shift into sound opens up the eerie. There is an
intrinsically eerie dimension to acousmatic sound — sound that is detached from a visible source — and one of
the most unsettling tracks on On Land is "Shadow”, which features a quietly distressing whimper that could be
a human voice, an animal sobbing, or an aural hallucination produced by the movement of wind. 

